# rgb
We&#39;re going to explore a website that you run right on your desktop today. Use a text document to answer the questions.

1.  Open the index.html file inside of the rgb folder. 

2.  Play the game for a few minutes, get to know it, change the difficulty. 

    a.  How would you expand the game? What options or settings could you add? 

I would make the "hard" mode "Medium" and make the "hard" mode have 3x3 color squares. For extra craziness, I would add an "insane" level and have 5x5 colors. 
I could also see some sparkles pop out on the screen when you get a color right, and a sound or color flash when you get a color wrong. 

3.  Using this documentation https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction to guide you: 

    a.  What is the DOM?

the DOM stands for "document Object Model". It is a programming interface for HTML and XML documents. DOM represents the page so that programs can change the document structure, style, and content. the DOM represents the document as nodes and objects, so programming languages can connect to the page. 

    b.  When is the DOM different than HTML?

the DOM affects the HTML. 

    c.  What is the state of the DOM when you first load the page?

The state of the DOM is a simple interface. The landing page includes color blocks arranged 2x3. There are ways to refresh to get new colors, as well as a place to change the rows from 2x3 to 1x3. 

    d.  What is the state of the DOM if you turn off JavaScript and refresh the page? 

The state of the DOM after I turned off JavaScript showed the page, but without any "fun" elements. The page displays a 2x3 row of color blocks all the same color: purple, and none of the buttons work to change from an easy difficulty to a hard difficulty, as well as there is no score. 

4.  Now let's explore the code. Use the inspector to investigate the HTML, CSS and Javascript. 

    a.  Which parts of UI are being generated by the HTML file? The CSS? The JavaScript? 

The parts of the UI that are being generated by HTML is the "score" and the element on the heading that gives the user the clue. 
The parts that are generated by CSS are the different colors you see when you click "new colors" or "play again"
the parts that are generated by JavaScript is the ability to click on various parts of the page and be able to refresh to get new colors immediatly. 

    b.  What happens inside the CSS file when you click on various elements in the page? 

If I click on the "wrong" color, the CSS changes from the color I just clicked on, to Black (35, 35, 35).
If I click on the "right" color, the CSS changes every block to the color that was "right" 

nothing else changes in the CSS. 

        i.  What elements does the CSS file change? 

the element that the CSS file changes is the "background" element.

    c.  What happens inside the HTML file when you click on various elements in the page? 

The same thing that happens in CSS. 

    d.  Use breakpoints in the JavaScript to walk through what happens when you click on various elements on the page. 

When in debugging mode, the screen pauses, and has a dark transluscent overlay on the screen, pausing the game from continuing. 

        i.  What happens when you click on a color block?

Screen:
    If I click on a wrong color, the color block I picked will disappear, leaving the background and five other colors left. 
Code HTML:
   The HTML changes from 
   <!-- <div class="square" style="display: block; background: rgb(72, 3, 23);"></div> -->
   to 
    <!-- <div class="square" style="display: block; background: rgb(35, 35, 35);"></div>  -->
Code CSS: 
    The CSS changes from 
    <!-- element.style { 
    display: block;
    background: rgb(72, 3, 23);
    } -->
    to 
    <!-- element.style { 
    display: block;
    background: rgb(35, 35, 35); 
    } -->

        ii.  What happens when you click on the winning color block? 

    if I click on the winning color, all elements on the screen change from the oringial color to the "winning" color. the rest of the 5 color blocks change in the HTML to match the "winning" color. 

        iii.  What happens when you click "Play again"? 

    The colors reset, changing the CSS and HTML color codes. 

        iv.  What HTML and CSS elements can JavaScript change? 

    The elements JavaScript is changing are the "container" elements in the HTML that hold the color data. It is also changing the "element.style" tag in CSS. 

        v.  How does score keeping work? 

    When you get the question right the first time, you recieve +5 points. At this point, I do not know where that information is in the JavaScript. It is kept by using "if/else" tags. 

        vi.  Why does it persist through closing the page? 

Because it is using localStorage and not sessionStorage. 

        vii.  Using this documentation: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage change the JavaScript file to use session storage instead of local storage. 

        viii.  What's different about the way the score is kept now? 

When a user leaves the page, the score will reset to 0.

        ix.  When you win what happens when the title changes?

When a user wins, the title changes from the RGB code to the name of the color + ish if it is close enough to the color.

        x.  What does Asynchronous mean in the context of JavaScript? 

it means it is happening all at the same time, all at once, instantaneously

        xi.  What is the fetch function inside of updateColorName? 

the fetch funtion is a GET request. 

        xii.  What does it do? 
    
It generates a new RGB color from the Color Library API

        xiii.  What's an alternative to using fetch? 

Axios

        xiv.  Why use one over the other? 

People still use browsers that are out of date (like internet explorer)

5.  Add comments to the JavaScript code explaining what you think each function does. 

6.  As you went through this process which of the 3E's did you draw from most? How?

    a.  Curiosity, Deal with Uncertainty, Observation Skills

7.  Push your changes to Git.

Other Resources: 

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage

- https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/javascript